README.md, before:

# Compact DnDBeyond-like 5e Character Sheet

![Latest Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/eastcw/foundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet/latest/module.zip?color=blue)
[![Forge Installs](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=Forge%20Installs&query=package.installs&suffix=%25&url=https%3A%2F%2Fforge-vtt.com%2Fapi%2Fbazaar%2Fpackage%2Fcompact-beyond-5e-sheet&colorB=4aa94a)](https://forge-vtt.com/bazaar#package=compact-beyond-5e-sheet)
[![Foundry Hub Endorsements](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?logoColor=white&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.foundryvtt-hub.com%2Fwp-json%2Fhubapi%2Fv1%2Fpackage%2Fcompact-beyond-5e-sheet%2Fshield%2Fendorsements)](https://www.foundryvtt-hub.com/package/compact-beyond-5e-sheet/)
[![Foundry Hub Comments](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?logoColor=white&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.foundryvtt-hub.com%2Fwp-json%2Fhubapi%2Fv1%2Fpackage%2Fcompact-beyond-5e-sheet%2Fshield%2Fcomments)](https://www.foundryvtt-hub.com/package/compact-beyond-5e-sheet/)

![Foundry Minimum Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Feastcw%2Ffoundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet%2Fmaster%2Fsrc%2Fmodule.json&query=%24.compatibility.minimum&label=Minimum%20Foundry%20Version&color=orange)
![Foundry Recommended Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Feastcw%2Ffoundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet%2Fmaster%2Fsrc%2Fmodule.json&query=%24.compatibility.verified&label=Recommended%20Foundry%20Version&color=green)
![Manifest+ Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Feastcw%2Ffoundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet%2Fmaster%2Fsrc%2Fmodule.json&query=%24.manifestPlusVersion&label=Manifest%2B%20Version&color=blue)

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/J3J4NM2RD)

Shamelessly taking ideas (and some code) from both the [DnDBeyond character sheet](https://github.com/jopeek/fvtt-dndbeyond-character-sheet) and the [Tidy 5e character sheet](https://github.com/sdenec/tidy5e-sheet). This is an information-dense character sheet for Foundry users who like the feel of D&DBeyond's character sheet, but want it to fit better within the Foundry UI.

## Installation

Module JSON:

```
https://github.com/eastcw/foundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet/releases/latest/download/module.json
```

### Dependencies

This module depends on `Character Actions List dnd5e`, which you can obtain on the listing or [here](https://github.com/eastcw/foundryvtt-dnd5eCharacterActions).

## Gallery

[<img src="readme-img/main-view.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/main-view.png)
[<img src="readme-img/spellbook.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/spellbook.png)
[<img src="readme-img/inventory.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/inventory.png)
[<img src="readme-img/features.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/features.png)
[<img src="readme-img/effects.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/effects.png)
[<img src="readme-img/biography.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/biography.png)

Click to view bigger.

## Key Features & Changes

### Actions Tab

Intending to place all of the "combat-important" (damage-dealing) spells and features up front, this tab lists every equipped item and prepared spell that can deal damage. Option in settings to limit spells to only Cantrips.

### Skills and Resources always present

No more digging around through multiple tabs to control your class resources or find the skill list. These two things sit on the screen always.

### Spellbook

Got rid of the spell school to make room for the more compressed table area. I can't think of anyone but a wizard who would need to know this information, and the info is still easily accessible from the expanded row. Make an issue if you disagree and we'll hash things out.

## Options

| **Name**                          | Description                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Use Expanded Sheet as Limited** | Uses the expanded sheet for the limited view.                                                               |
| **Show spell slot bubbles**       | Shows a set of checkboxes to show you how many levelled spell slots are left at each level, a la DnDBeyond. |
| **Show full currency names**      | Shows the full currency names (Gold, Silver, etc) instead of the abbreviated names (GP, SP, etc).           |

This sheet respects the 5e System setting: "Disable Experience Tracking"

### Compatibility

I'm honestly not sure how well this will play with modules that affect character sheets, I'll try to test as many as possible but if something is obviously breaking please create and issue here and I'll see what I can do.

| **Name**                                                                                         |       Works        | Notes                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :----------------: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Ready Set Roll 5e](https://github.com/MangoFVTT/fvtt-ready-set-roll-5e)                         | :heavy_check_mark: | Direct replacement for Better Rolls 5e, seems to work well                                                                          |
| [Better Rolls 5e](https://github.com/RedReign/FoundryVTT-BetterRolls5e)                          |        :x:         | Deprecated in favour of Ready Set Roll 5e                                                                                           |
| [Midi-QOL](https://gitlab.com/tposney/midi-qol)                                                  | :heavy_check_mark: | Integrated with 0.7.x, Everything seems normal.                                                                                     |
| [Minor QOL](https://gitlab.com/tposney/minor-qol)                                                |        :x:         | Deprecated in favor of Midi-QOL. Won't Support.                                                                                     |
| [5e-Sheet Resources Plus](https://github.com/ardittristan/5eSheet-resourcesPlus)                 | :heavy_check_mark: | Resources area scrolls independently. Uses CSS Grid                                                                                 |
| [Variant Encumbrance](https://github.com/VanirDev/VariantEncumbrance)                            |        :x:         | Default encumberance bar removed, Speed css overrides will break things.                                                            |
| [FoundryVTT Magic Items](https://gitlab.com/riccisi/foundryvtt-magic-items)                      | :heavy_check_mark: | List of Spells is Appended to more or less correctly, but new abilities are not added to the Actions Tab.                           |
| [D&D5e Dark Mode](https://github.com/Stryxin/dnd5edark-foundryvtt)                               | :heavy_check_mark: | Made tweaks to make foundry-wide dark mode "usable."                                                                                |
| [Favourite Item Tab](https://github.com/syl3r86/favtab)                                          | :heavy_check_mark: | Works as expected, a few things on the UI are cramped but definitely usable.                                                        |
| [Inventory+](https://github.com/syl3r86/inventory-plus)                                          |      :shrug:       | Inventory Tab Features interfere with how we generate the Actions Tab. If Inventory+ is on, the actions tab will not display items. |
| [Illandril's Character Sheet Lockdown](https://github.com/illandril/FoundryVTT-sheet5e-lockdown) | :heavy_check_mark: | As of 0.7.x this sheet is appropriately affected.                                                                                   |
| [Crash's 5e Downtime Tracking](https://github.com/crash1115/5e-training)                         | :heavy_check_mark: | Works well in limited space.                                                                                                        |
| [Ethck's 5e Downtime Tracking](https://github.com/Ethck/Ethck-s-Downtime-Tracking)               | :heavy_check_mark: | Works well in limited space.                                                                                                        |
| [Skill Customization for D&D5E](https://github.com/schultzcole/FVTT-Skill-Customization-5e)      | :heavy_check_mark: | user might want to expand their sheet horizontally a little to accommodate the needed extra space.                                  |

## Known Issues

- The To Hit/Save DC column is probably going to respond poorly to unconventional weapon builds. Stuff like the Hexblade or Bladesinger. See [Issue #4](https://github.com/ElfFriend-DnD/foundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet/issues/4).

## Acknowledgements

Mostly a thousand thanks to [Andrew Krigline](https://github.com/akrigline) for creating this module and making it so good to use and indispensable that I felt compelled to take it over when he couldn't maintain it any more.

Obviously all of the layout decisions here are pretty directly ripped from D&DBeyond's desktop-sized character sheet. I'm assuming they have done a lot of UX research and am piggy-backing off of that work.

Yoinked the expanded Biography tab directly from [tidy5e-sheet](https://github.com/sdenec/tidy5e-sheet). Also took their localization of the headers in said tab.

Bootstrapped with Nick East's [create-foundry-project](https://gitlab.com/foundry-projects/foundry-pc/create-foundry-project).

Mad props to the [League of Extraordinary FoundryVTT Developers](https://forums.forge-vtt.com/c/package-development/11) community which helped me figure out a lot.

Commit message:

Dark mode (#20)
* added some fundamentals for dark mode

* added functional setting for dark mode

* small improvements

* added some fundamentals for dark mode

* added functional setting for dark mode

* small improvements

* started colour changes

* prevent attributes being scrollable

* xp tracker now works with level up button injection

* made empty bio fields editable

* Update README.md

Signed-off-by: Cameron <cameroneast1996@gmail.com>

* added some fundamentals for dark mode

* added functional setting for dark mode

* small improvements

* added some fundamentals for dark mode

* added functional setting for dark mode

* started colour changes

* added hopefully all remaining dark mode colours

* added hopefully all remaining dark mode colours

* bumped version numbers & nixed autorelease for alpha

* made most settings editable by players

* small changes for dark mode clarity

* darkened dark mode background slightly & changed accent colour

* bumped version numbers

* add dark mode option to readme

* edit typo in readme

* colour corrected item descriptions

* bumped version numbers

* finishing touches on dark mode

* changes ready to merge

---------

Signed-off-by: Cameron <cameroneast1996@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Compact DnDBeyond-like 5e Character Sheet

![Latest Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/eastcw/foundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet/latest/module.zip?color=blue)
[![Forge Installs](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=Forge%20Installs&query=package.installs&suffix=%25&url=https%3A%2F%2Fforge-vtt.com%2Fapi%2Fbazaar%2Fpackage%2Fcompact-beyond-5e-sheet&colorB=4aa94a)](https://forge-vtt.com/bazaar#package=compact-beyond-5e-sheet)
[![Foundry Hub Endorsements](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?logoColor=white&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.foundryvtt-hub.com%2Fwp-json%2Fhubapi%2Fv1%2Fpackage%2Fcompact-beyond-5e-sheet%2Fshield%2Fendorsements)](https://www.foundryvtt-hub.com/package/compact-beyond-5e-sheet/)
[![Foundry Hub Comments](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?logoColor=white&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.foundryvtt-hub.com%2Fwp-json%2Fhubapi%2Fv1%2Fpackage%2Fcompact-beyond-5e-sheet%2Fshield%2Fcomments)](https://www.foundryvtt-hub.com/package/compact-beyond-5e-sheet/)

![Foundry Minimum Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Feastcw%2Ffoundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet%2Fmaster%2Fsrc%2Fmodule.json&query=%24.compatibility.minimum&label=Minimum%20Foundry%20Version&color=orange)
![Foundry Recommended Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Feastcw%2Ffoundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet%2Fmaster%2Fsrc%2Fmodule.json&query=%24.compatibility.verified&label=Recommended%20Foundry%20Version&color=green)
![Manifest+ Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Feastcw%2Ffoundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet%2Fmaster%2Fsrc%2Fmodule.json&query=%24.manifestPlusVersion&label=Manifest%2B%20Version&color=blue)

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/J3J4NM2RD)

Shamelessly taking ideas (and some code) from both the [DnDBeyond character sheet](https://github.com/jopeek/fvtt-dndbeyond-character-sheet) and the [Tidy 5e character sheet](https://github.com/sdenec/tidy5e-sheet). This is an information-dense character sheet for Foundry users who like the feel of D&DBeyond's character sheet, but want it to fit better within the Foundry UI.

## Installation

Module JSON:

```
https://github.com/eastcw/foundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet/releases/latest/download/module.json
```

### Dependencies

This module depends on `Character Actions List dnd5e`, which you can obtain on the listing or [here](https://github.com/eastcw/foundryvtt-dnd5eCharacterActions).

## Gallery

[<img src="readme-img/main-view.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/main-view.png)
[<img src="readme-img/spellbook.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/spellbook.png)
[<img src="readme-img/inventory.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/inventory.png)
[<img src="readme-img/features.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/features.png)
[<img src="readme-img/effects.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/effects.png)
[<img src="readme-img/biography.png" width="30%"></img>](readme-img/biography.png)

Click to view bigger.

## Key Features & Changes

### Actions Tab

Intending to place all of the "combat-important" (damage-dealing) spells and features up front, this tab lists every equipped item and prepared spell that can deal damage. Option in settings to limit spells to only Cantrips.

### Skills and Resources always present

No more digging around through multiple tabs to control your class resources or find the skill list. These two things sit on the screen always.

### Spellbook

Got rid of the spell school to make room for the more compressed table area. I can't think of anyone but a wizard who would need to know this information, and the info is still easily accessible from the expanded row. Make an issue if you disagree and we'll hash things out.

## Options

| **Name**                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Use Expanded Sheet as Limited** | Uses the expanded sheet for the limited view.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **Colour Scheme**                 | Allows you to choose between the standard Foundry colour scheme similar to the default character sheet, or an in-built dark mode. NB, this dark mode will only affect the character sheet, not the rest of the software. |
| **Show spell slot bubbles**       | Shows a set of checkboxes to show you how many levelled spell slots are left at each level, a la DnDBeyond.                                                                                                              |
| **Show full currency names**      | Shows the full currency names (Gold, Silver, etc) instead of the abbreviated names (GP, SP, etc).                                                                                                                        |

This sheet respects the 5e System setting: "Disable Experience Tracking"

### Compatibility

I'm honestly not sure how well this will play with modules that affect character sheets, I'll try to test as many as possible but if something is obviously breaking please create and issue here and I'll see what I can do.

| **Name**                                                                                         |       Works        | Notes                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :----------------: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Ready Set Roll 5e](https://github.com/MangoFVTT/fvtt-ready-set-roll-5e)                         | :heavy_check_mark: | Direct replacement for Better Rolls 5e, seems to work well                                                                          |
| [Better Rolls 5e](https://github.com/RedReign/FoundryVTT-BetterRolls5e)                          |        :x:         | Deprecated in favour of Ready Set Roll 5e                                                                                           |
| [Midi-QOL](https://gitlab.com/tposney/midi-qol)                                                  | :heavy_check_mark: | Integrated with 0.7.x, Everything seems normal.                                                                                     |
| [Minor QOL](https://gitlab.com/tposney/minor-qol)                                                |        :x:         | Deprecated in favor of Midi-QOL. Won't Support.                                                                                     |
| [5e-Sheet Resources Plus](https://github.com/ardittristan/5eSheet-resourcesPlus)                 | :heavy_check_mark: | Resources area scrolls independently. Uses CSS Grid                                                                                 |
| [Variant Encumbrance](https://github.com/VanirDev/VariantEncumbrance)                            |        :x:         | Default encumberance bar removed, Speed css overrides will break things.                                                            |
| [FoundryVTT Magic Items](https://gitlab.com/riccisi/foundryvtt-magic-items)                      | :heavy_check_mark: | List of Spells is Appended to more or less correctly, but new abilities are not added to the Actions Tab.                           |
| [D&D5e Dark Mode](https://github.com/Stryxin/dnd5edark-foundryvtt)                               | :heavy_check_mark: | Made tweaks to make foundry-wide dark mode "usable."                                                                                |
| [Favourite Item Tab](https://github.com/syl3r86/favtab)                                          | :heavy_check_mark: | Works as expected, a few things on the UI are cramped but definitely usable.                                                        |
| [Inventory+](https://github.com/syl3r86/inventory-plus)                                          |      :shrug:       | Inventory Tab Features interfere with how we generate the Actions Tab. If Inventory+ is on, the actions tab will not display items. |
| [Illandril's Character Sheet Lockdown](https://github.com/illandril/FoundryVTT-sheet5e-lockdown) | :heavy_check_mark: | As of 0.7.x this sheet is appropriately affected.                                                                                   |
| [Crash's 5e Downtime Tracking](https://github.com/crash1115/5e-training)                         | :heavy_check_mark: | Works well in limited space.                                                                                                        |
| [Ethck's 5e Downtime Tracking](https://github.com/Ethck/Ethck-s-Downtime-Tracking)               | :heavy_check_mark: | Works well in limited space.                                                                                                        |
| [Skill Customization for D&D5E](https://github.com/schultzcole/FVTT-Skill-Customization-5e)      | :heavy_check_mark: | user might want to expand their sheet horizontally a little to accommodate the needed extra space.                                  |

## Known Issues

- The To Hit/Save DC column is probably going to respond poorly to unconventional weapon builds. Stuff like the Hexblade or Bladesinger. See [Issue #4](https://github.com/ElfFriend-DnD/foundryvtt-compactBeyond5eSheet/issues/4).

## Acknowledgements

Mostly a thousand thanks to [Andrew Krigline](https://github.com/akrigline) for creating this module and making it so good to use and indispensable that I felt compelled to take it over when he couldn't maintain it any more.

Obviously all of the layout decisions here are pretty directly ripped from D&DBeyond's desktop-sized character sheet. I'm assuming they have done a lot of UX research and am piggy-backing off of that work.

Yoinked the expanded Biography tab directly from [tidy5e-sheet](https://github.com/sdenec/tidy5e-sheet). Also took their localization of the headers in said tab.

Bootstrapped with Nick East's [create-foundry-project](https://gitlab.com/foundry-projects/foundry-pc/create-foundry-project).

Mad props to the [League of Extraordinary FoundryVTT Developers](https://forums.forge-vtt.com/c/package-development/11) community which helped me figure out a lot.
